## 1.1 The problem
In the music industry, there can often be certain problems with uploading music in the form of videos to platforms such as YouTube. Music sometimes gets lost in unrelated videos or lacks enough metadata to be easily findable, especially music from upcoming artists. Therefore it is often troublesome for the user to navigate through the different videos, in order to find the specific song that the user wants to listen to.

The goal of the main project is to develop a music streaming-service, which makes music easily available to the user, without having to make complicated searches for it. The system is based upon a community of users and artists who are able to add music to the platform from other sources such as YouTube. This makes the application a lot similar to other streaming-platforms. What sets this system apart, is the fact that users are given a lot more freedom, to upload whatever kind of music they want, based on content from sites like YouTube. The potential music-library can therefore become a lot bigger than other similar applications, for example by also including music from TV shows or live performances.

The main project has been split up into multiple subsystems. This group is responsible for developing a subsystem that should be used for uploading music to the main system. The subsystem gets the music by downloading sound from a given video link, while also including metadata like the thumbnail from the video and the metadata associated with the video. The User interface of the subsystem will be implemented by other groups, which is why this project will only focus on the backend functionality.

## 1.2 Typical solutions
Making a Google search for "youtube to mp3" results in a plethora of websites that will convert a given YouTube link to an MP3 file. What all these solutions have in common is that the MP3 files are simply downloaded to the client's PC after conversion. The associated metadata is not gathered or used in any way, and the clients themselves need to add the music to their favorite music library. [[1]](/References#1-typical-youtube-mp3-downloader) 

## 1.3 System Description
The group's solution, "Song Straw", is a subsystem that functions in cooperation with a larger music streaming application. The focus of this subsystem is to make an API available in the form of a microservice, which you can use to upload music and its associated metadata to the main system. This is accomplished with the help of several different external APIs used to collect the music files and the corresponding metadata. First, an external API will be used to download the requested video, then the server will convert the video to an MP3-file which will then be stored in the system; [[2]](References#2-youtube-mp3-downloader-used-for-files). Two other external APIs will then be used to gather the associated metadata, consisting of the thumbnail, artists, producer, etc; [[3]](/References#3-youtubes-api-used-for-metadata) & [[4]](/References#4-ytdl-core-api-used-for-metadata). If the metadata is not available, the client will be allowed to supply relevant metadata on their own. This way it will be made sure that everything the platform needs, to enable music searches, is supplied at upload time.